[SYCL] Release notes for February'20 SYCL implementation update (#1400)
intel/llvm: sycl/ReleaseNotes.md

# February'20 release notes

Release notes for commit e8f1f29

## New features
  - Added `__builtin_intel_fpga_mem` for the FPGA SYCL device. The builtin is
    used to indicate the characteristics of the load-store unit (LSU) to be used
    when de-referencing the pointer [1e33c01]
  - Added support for the `intelfpga::uses_global_work_offset` attribute
    [8bed533]
  - Added basic xmethod implementation for `sycl::accessor::operator[]` to make
    it callable from gdb command line [d6be8ff]

>   - Added device libraries for standard math like std::cos and `std::complex`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Added device libraries for standard math like `std::cos` and `std::complex`
```

    type [7abd9d5]

## Improvements
### SYCL Frontend and driver changes

>   - Added support for passing a non type template parameter to the `loop_unroll`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Added support for passing a non-type template parameter to the `loop_unroll`
```

    attribute [8d7a32a]
  - Relaxed the standard layout requirement for kernel arguments. Now by default

>     they should be trivially copiable. The `sycl-std=1.2.1` driver option turns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    they should be trivially copiable. The `-sycl-std=1.2.1` driver option turns
```
?

    standard layout requirement "on" [3adb4a5]
  - Added diagnostic on using `__float128` type in the device code [659efdf]
  - The `intelfpga::max_private_copies` has been renamed to
    `intelfpga::private_copies` [97a199f]

>   - Fixed output options behavior for `-fsycl-link` on Windows [67b24d46]

Reviewer 2: This probably belongs in **Bug fixes**

  - Prevented duplication of error diagnostics for `-fsycl` [3a0b62e]
  - Added diagnostic when attempting to use existing FPGA static library with
    additional device code [6431be6]

>   - Renamed `intelfpga::uses_global_work_offset` attribute to

Reviewer 3: Maybe just write one point: Added support for the `intelfpga::no_global_work_offset` attribute instead of two sentences (on line 9 and on line 30)?

Author: Done.

    `intelfpga::no_global_work_offset` [5a9058b]
  - Added support for non-type template parameters for FPGA memory attributes
    [ffcad03]

### SYCL headers and runtime
  - The `SYCL_DEVICE_WHITE_LIST` control was renamed to `SYCL_DEVICE_ALLOWLIST`
    [4df18fa]
  - Added a leaf limit to the execution graph to avoid leaf bloat in
    applications that have an overwhelming number of command groups that can
    be executed in parallel [7c293e2]
  - Added `get_range()` method to the image and local accessors to align with
    the SYCL specification [8ed5566]
  - Added a diagnostic on attempt to create a context from devices that are
    bound to different platforms [8f354f7]
  - An ordered queue can now be created by passing
   `sycl::property::queue::in_order` property to the `sycl::queue` constructor
    [c855520]
  - Added a diagnostic on attempt to create an accessor with an unsupported type
    [306624e]
  - Made host device return `nullptr` for bad USM allocation functions
    (huge, 0, etc) [2a000d9]
  - Added templated forms of USM allocation functions [42cf5bf]
  - Added support for APIs that query properties of USM pointers [926e38e]

>   - Added clean up finished command nodes of the execution graph in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Added finished command nodes' clean-up of the execution graph in the
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Added cleanup of finished command nodes of the execution graph in the
```
I think this flows better, as in "cleanup" -> "command nodes" -> "execution graph" rather than "command nodes" <- "cleanup" -> "execution graph".

Author: Done.

>     situations when the wait for a command to complete is called implicitly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    situations when the `wait` for a command is called implicitly
```
(I believe that "wait to complete" is obsolete for anyone familiar with the topic)

    [proposal](doc/extensions/OrderedQueue/OrderedQueue_v2.adoc) [9fa878f]
  - Added device code split options documentation to the
    [user's manual](doc/SYCLCompilerUserManual.md) [1355aa6]
  - Added documentation for [ExtendedAtomics extension](doc/extensions/ExtendedAtomics/SYCL_INTEL_extended_atomics.asciidoc) [4445462]
  - Removed old Ordered Queue proposal and make a note of deprecation [e8f1f29]

## Bug fixes
### SYCL Frontend and driver changes
  - Fixed variable sharing passed by value to `parallel_for_work_group`
    [d8ea63a]
  - Do not produce an error if some restricted feature (e.g. exceptions) is used
    by a function only referenced in unevaluated contexts [5eae571]
  - Fixed problem with not cleaning up temporary files when device code split
    feature is enabled [d86ee2f]
  - Fixed issue with emitting wrong 'typename' keywords in the integration
    header [c19372e]
  - The SYCL target image registration functions have been renamed to avoid
    conflicts with the OpenMP registration functions [82fd970]
  - Avoid using `std::memcpy` in the device code [f39f47e]
  - Fixed `-save-temps` option when used along with `-fsycl` [f7f4699]

>   - Also fixed link steps triggering for libraries specified using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fixed link steps triggering for libraries specified through
```

    `-foffload-static-lib` when no source or object file is provided [360b25b]

### SYCL headers and runtime
  - Fixed final result saturation in the host implementation of `sycl::mad_sat`
    [54dddb4]
  - Fixed a crash when a non-nullptr_t `0x0` value is passed to the
    `sycl::buffer::set_final_data` method [6a0e279]
  - Fixed an issue with copying sub-buffer between different contexts [0867a38]
  - Resolved the problem when local accessor is a temporary object [1eed329]

>   - Fixed an issue with event not being retained when memory object is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fixed an issue with the event not being retained when a memory object is
```

    constructed using interoperability constructors [0aabe7e]
  - Fixed compilation of kernels which use `sycl::stream` for FPGA device
    [c4dbaa2]

>   - Fixed execution graph cleanup on memory object destruction [7a75b54]

Reviewer 2: Should this be merged with the original feature description?

Reviewer 4: I don't think so, this fix is for a different cleanup mechanism that existed before.

## Known issues

>   - [new] Defining macro with names SUCCESS or FAILED can break SYCL headers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [new] Defining a `SUCCESS` or `FAILED` macro can break SYCL headers
```

    because such names are used internally
  - [new] The format of the object files produced by the compiler can change

>     between versions. Workaround is to rebuild the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    between versions. The workaround is to rebuild the application.
```
(the same for the next item)

  - [new] The SYCL library doesn't guarantee stable API/ABI, so applications
    compiled with older version of the SYCL library may not work with new one.
    Workaround is to rebuild the application.
  - Using `cl::sycl::program` API to refer to a kernel defined in another
    translation unit leads to undefined behaviour
  - Linkage errors with the following message:
    `error LNK2005: "bool const std::_Is_integral<bool>" (??$_Is_integral@_N@std@@3_NB) already defined`
    can happen when a SYCL application is built using MS Visual Studio 2019
    version below 16.3.0

>     For MSVC version having the error the workaround is to use -std=c++17 switch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The workaround is to use enable `-std=c++17` for the failing MSVC version.
```

## Prerequisites
### Linux
- Experimental Intel(R) CPU Runtime for OpenCL(TM) Applications with SYCL
  support version
  [2020.10.3.0.04](https://github.com/intel/llvm/releases/download/2020-02/oclcpuexp-2020.10.3.0.04_rel.tar.gz)

>   is recommended OpenCL CPU RT prerequisite for the SYCL compiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  is the recommended OpenCL CPU RT prerequisite for the DPC++ compiler
```
(the same applies to other prerequisites)

Reviewer 5: Let's merge as is. It's end of March already. These notes are coming quite late.

- The Intel(R) Graphics Compute Runtime for OpenCL(TM) version
  [20.06.15619](https://github.com/intel/compute-runtime/releases/tag/20.06.15619)
  is recommended OpenCL GPU RT prerequisite for the SYCL compiler.
<!--### Windows-->
- Experimental Intel(R) CPU Runtime for OpenCL(TM) Applications with SYCL
  support version
  [2020.10.3.0.04](https://github.com/intel/llvm/releases/download/2020-02/win-oclcpuexp-2020.10.3.0.04_rel.zip)
  is recommended OpenCL CPU RT prerequisite for the SYCL compiler
- The Intel(R) Graphics Compute Runtime for OpenCL(TM) version
  [26.20.100.7870](https://downloadcenter.intel.com/download/29426/Intel-Graphics-Windows-10-DCH-Drivers)
  is recommended OpenCL GPU RT prerequisite for the SYCL compiler.

> Please, see the runtime installation guide [here](https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/GetStartedWithSYCLCompiler.md#install-low-level-runtime)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Please, see the runtime installation guide [here](https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/ sycl/doc/GetStartedGuide.md #install-low-level-runtime)
```
